FN-1.‎Ruins of the Palace of San Souci, HaitiBuilt by Christophe (Later Emperor Henry I). He also built the fortress of monuments of the New World. Together with Toussaint L’ouverture and Dessalines, he was one of the greatest authors of Haitian Independence.‎Fanny NesbitThe Beautiful wife of Lord Nelson, England’s greatest sea hero and later Duchess of Bronte was popularly said to have been of Negro Descent...Native of Nevis, West Indies‎~‎Nearly all the mineral wealth of South Africa is dug by Negro Labor. In 1949, the Blacks dug out 11,708,013 ounces of god; 1,382000 carats of diamonds; 1,171,000 ounces of silver; as well as platinum and other rich ores. These gold and diamond miners are very poorly paid and are virtually slaves.‎FN-2.‎Jack JohnsonConsidered by many as the greatest of all heavyweight champions. Born in Galveston, Texas in 1878, he won the world’s heavyweight championship from Tommy Burns in Australia. Defeated Jim Jeffries who was persuaded to return from retirement to wrest the title from him. A master of the art of defense, he held the title longer than any other heavyweight champion. Was finally defeated by Jess Willard in Havana, Cuba, 1915. Continued fighting until 1924. Active until his death in an auto accident in N. Carolina, 1945.‎Huldah ClarkOf Newark, N. J.. Guest of Premier Khruschev of Russia who is having her educated there. She is studying chiefly math, chemistry, biology and Russian. Her working hours are from 9am to 2pm and 5pm to 8pm. She said Russian Children are three grades ahead of American ones though they don’t start school until they are seven. She likes Russia very much.‎Corp. Isaac ValleyOf Girard, Kansas, was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for what Gen. Pershing called “One of the most gallant deeds” of World War I. When a hand grenade dropped from a private’s hand, he placed his foot over it . It blew off his foot but saved the lives of his comrades in the trench.‎FN-3.‎Adowa ‎Ethiopia, as it appeared in 1896, when the forces of Menelik Annihilated an Italian army. 12,000 Italians were killed, including two generals; 7,000 were captured, and the entire supplies of the Italians, including 4,000,000 cartridges. The first great defeat of the white by black since the Moors conquered Spain, Italy, and Southern France, it sent a shiver through imperialist Europe.‎Junius G. Groves ‎Born Louisville KY., 1859, was known as “The Potato King”. Migrating to Kaw Valley, Kans., he bought 80 acres of land, grew potatoes, and was so successful, that he increased his acreage to 500. He became such an important shipper that the Union Pacific Railroad built a spur on his property to haul his potatoes. He built a fine mansion, and later refused an offer in six figures from the railroad for his land.‎Claudio Jose Brindis de Salas (1852-1911) ‎‎“King of the Octaves”. One of the greatest violinists of all time. Born in Cuba, he studied in Paris where he won first prize at the conservatory. Had dazzling success in leading European cities where he was hailed as “first violinist of the century”. Emperor William I of Germany appointed him court violins. Made him a Baron,‎FN-4.‎Robert Kweku Gardiner One of Africa’s ablest sons. Native of Ghana. Graduate Cambridge Univ. with graduate courses in economics and government at Oxford and London, England. Lectured in Liberia and Sierra Leone. Taught in University College, Ghana, and was later Ghana’s civil service chief. In 1946, he was appointed to the trusteeship division of the United Nations and was later promoted to the Economic Commission for Africa. At present U. N. Mediator in the Congo.‎Andrew Jackson,‎President of the United States (1829), used to speculate in slaves.‎Daniel Clark,‎Was one of Kentucky’s best beloved and highly respected citizens. Lived in the state mansion for 36 years as unofficial guest. Served as counsellor to governors. Was called “the Ancient Governor.” When he died, 1872, the legislature said of him, “a notable example to all men, white, and black of industry, sobriety and integrity in office.” Started as valet to Gov. Clark‎FN-5.‎Mulai Tayeb ‎‎ “SAINT”, richest and most powerful figure of Morocco in the 1870s and 80s. Claimed descent from Mohamet. Very generous, he gave his wealth to thousands of the poor. His Italian-style palace which held rare specimens of African art and old Arab manuscripts, was fabulous. His tomb became a shrine of refuge for the accused.‎In Haiti, under the French, Negro women were forbidden to wear the same color of clothing as whites, to dress their hair in the same style, to wear jewelry, even to wear shoes. The purpose was to make the Negro women less attractive to white men, who according to writers of the time, were greatly fascinated by the black girls.‎Richard B. Spikes ‎‎ of Fresno, California, a Negro invented a semaphore system now used on Western railroads which he sold for $100,000. Spikes had 28 other patients on his inventions.‎FN-6.‎Isaiah T. MontgomeryFounder of the All-Negro Town of Mound Bayou, Miss., was one of the most enterprising businessmen of his time. Born a slave in 1847, he later went into cotton trading and bought his former master’s plantation. In 1887 founded Mound Bayou, now a modern town of 37,000 acres with assessed value of $7,500,000. Served in the U.S. Navy during the Civil War. Later elected delegate to the state convention.‎‎\[Mound Bayou- Largest U.S. Negro town. Settled July 17, 1887 by ex-slaves of Joe Davis, who conceived idea before Civil War/ Isaiah T. Montgomery (member of 1890 state convention \& his cousin, Benjamin T. Green). --Plaque of Mound Bayou, all Negro-Town now celebrating its 75th Anniversary. Run entirely by Negroes.]‎JeanneA Negro Woman was one of the first mistresses of Louis XIV of France. He was known as “the Grand Monarch.”‎Two Negro girls brought from Africa to Scotland in 1504, were presented to the Queen of Scotland, who had them baptised and named Ellen and Margaret More. She had them educated at the Scotch Court and appointed Ellen one of her maids-of-honor. In June 1507 a tournament was held in honor of Ellen as Queen of Love and Beauty at Edinburgh.‎FN-7.‎Mulai Hassan Sultan of Tunis in 1533. His Army and Navy were one of the most powerful of its time. His ships like those of other Islamic rulers of North Africa, raided the coasts of Southern and Western Europe, including England and Ireland, for white slaves whom they sold in Sallee (Morocco), Algiers, Tunis, and Constantinople….A practice that lasted until 1800. The United States, as a young nation, had to pay tribute to these African sovereigns to sail the Atlantic and the Mediterranean.‎House that was built by Gilbert Smith, a Negro of St. Augustine, Fla. of Fish Scales pressed tightly together. The only known one of its kind in the world.‎Isaac MurphyOne of the greatest of all jockeys. Won the American derby three times in succession, 1884, ‘85 and ‘86 and again in 1888. Also won the Kentucky Derby five times and the Clark Handicap four times. One of his greatest victories was at Church Hill Downs riding Rey El Santa Anita, lucky Baldwin’s horse. Murphy was hailed as “the King of All Riders."FN-8.‎Dynasty of Negro KingsSusian figure of about 2300 B.C. or earlier. The Susian, also known as Elamites, were a Black people and had a “Dynasty of Negro Kings,” According to a French excavator. They ruled Persia, Conquered Babylon, and Assyria, and fought the Scythians, a white people. Susa, their capital, is the Shushan of the Bible.‎Dr. Rebecca J. Cole.‎One of the first two Negro female physicians in the U.S. graduated in medicine in 1869. Was Ass’t. Resident physician in the Infirmary Medical School and Hospital founded by Elizbeth Blackwell, first female physician, who praises her in her autobiography. Dr. Cole practiced for 50. Years, in Philadelphia, Columbia, S.C. and Washington, D.C.‎Africa has the world’s oldest existing university. It is Karaouyine at Fez, Southern Morocco, where the population is very Negroid. When Europe was struggling with clumsy Roman Letter-Numerals this university was using Arabic numerals (as we use today) and later introduced them into Europe. Christian students were admitted, one of whom later became Pope Sylvester II.‎FN-9.‎Abuker Tafawa BalewaEfficient transport minister of Nigeria. Graduate, with honors, London University, England, he is a Moslem and popular with the Sultans and Emirs of that faith. For years a determined worker for full independence, which he expects not later than 1958.‎Among the several Back-to-Africa plans for American Negroes was that of Jacques LeBaudy, French multi-millionaire, “Emperor of the Sahara.” With him was the French General Gouraud, former Governor-General of the French Sudan, under whom the American Negroes served in World War I. The project fell through when LeBaudy was murdered.‎Adam Kok‎1765…...1835‎Was one of the great early figures of South Africa. Son of a white man and a native woman, he gathered the despised mixed-bloods, called “bastards,” changed their names to Griquas, led them north and founded Griqualand, Capital, Kok-Stad. The colony prospered and lived in peace under Adam Kok III till 1867, when it was found to be very rich in gold and diamonds, and was seized by the whites.‎FN-10. ‎S. D. MahomedNoted barber-surgeon of the 18th century. He lived in Brighton, England. In his day barbering was combined with surgery, such as dissecting, pulling teeth and blood-letting. Cliente were the rich and fashionable.‎Negro Rock-Drawing of tens of thousands of years ago---one of many---discovered by a French expedition in 1935 in the Central Sahara, Africa...it is said to be of Bushman origin. The bushmen, small, pepper-corn-haired Blacks with whom the civilization of Ancient Egypt seems to have really begun, were the greatest of all the pre-historic artists...descendants of these very ancient Blacks are still to be found in the Kahalari Desert, South Africa...the drawing is remarkable for its lights and shades…‎TimbuctooAfrican city was capital of the leading nations of the world as late as the 17th century...Timbuctoo was immensely rich with a large army, a nave on the niger, a university with scholars and writers. It was called “the Queen of the Sudan” and rose to its highest power under Askia the Great. It was later attacked and destroyed by emperor Mansour of Morocco.‎FN-11.‎E. O. Asafu-Adjaye ‎Minister of Trade and Labor for the Gold Coast, (Ghana) West Africa. Brilliant economist, thoroughly informed of his country, he has been a force in its rising commercial expansion. In 1956, he headed to the Gold Coast delegation to the International Labor Organization in Geneva. His address was an outstanding event of the conference.‎The first Africans in the American colonies were called variously – Blackamores, Mores, Africans, Nigers, Negers, Ethiopians, and Negros. Negro originates from Niger (now Nigeria) brought the name into ancient Rome with the and it found its way into Latin (Niger, Nigra, Nigrum). “Black” and “colored” are European. Black is from old Anglo-Saxon; colored from old French.‎Pascal B. Randolph‎ Born New York City, 1825 was once the leading figure in occultism in Europe and America. Graduate in medicine, he went to France, where he found high favor with Napoleon III and his court. Likewise, in Russia where he was received by the Czar, found a Rosicrucian Lodge in America. In 1851, wrote “Magica Sexualis” and other books. His motto was “stand up for the right”.‎‎FN-12. ‎Samuel R. LoweryBorn of slave parents in 1836, was perhaps the most noted silk grower of his time. Importing white mulberry seeds from France he planted them on his 175 acre farm and raised silk-worms. At the New York Exposition he won first prize over 18 competitors, including those from China, France, Japan, Italy, and Mexico. At the Southern Exposition he won another First Prize. Lowery had previously been a chaplain in the Civil War and practiced Law at Nashville, Tennessee.‎An Oriental Proverb says:‎‎“To please the eye take a white woman; to please the senses take a Black one.”‎Colonel William Henry Singleton‎1833-1938‎Only known Negro of that rank in the Civil War. Enlisted in 1863. Was made a sergeant and later promoted to Colonel by Lincoln. Commanded a patrol at Lincoln’s funeral. A GAR, he insisted on marching in a GAR parade in Des Moines, Iowa for 15 blocks in spite of his 103 years and the heat. He died soon after. Unable to read or write until he was 29, largely self-educated. He told his life story in “Recollections of my Slavery Days,” published in 1922. Lived in New Haven Connecticut.‎FN-13.Andy BowenA Negro and Jack Burke, a white, are said to have fought the longest prize fight on record. The fight was stopped and declared no contest in the 110th round. The purse was $2500. Bowen according to the news report, had an edge on Burke. The latter had both hands broken. The bout took place April 6, 1893 in New Orleans.‎During the Revolutionary War, rich white men would send slaves to take their places. After the war, when some masters tried to reclaim these slaves, who had received no pay for their services, there was national indignation...one state, Virginia, ordered the slave soldiers freed.‎FN-14.‎Alum AhiyouEthiopian Prince, who was adopted by Queen Victoria, and educated at Rugby, England, Youngest Son of Theodore, usurping ruler of Ethiopia who killed himself after his defeat by the British at Magdala, Ethiopia, in 1867. He was accused of imprisoning and torturing missionaries and died in 1876 at the age of 19. . Was buried in the Royal Chapel at Windsor. ‎AliceBorn in the W. Indies at 1686, and died at the age of 116, was one of the first residents of Philadelphia. She knew William Penn. Was so highly thought of she was included in a book of biographical sketches of the world’s women of, as Joan of Arc, ...Catherine of Russia..in 1804.‎Robert GordonA Negro was the leading coal-dealer of Cincinnati, Ohio in the 1850’s. Born a slave in Virginia, he came to Cincinnati in 1847 and built his own docks and barges. When white coal-dealers, hoping to freeze him out, lowered their prices he sent near-white Negroes who bought up their stocks. He later cornered the market.‎FN-15.‎Superwoman!‎Annie Christmas ‎She was said to be 6ft. 8 inches tall, weighted over 200, wore a mustache and could carry a barrel of flour in each hand and another balanced on her head. She was a terror to men and wore a necklace of eyes, noses, and ears of men she had beaten in fights. She once towed a keel-boat from Natchez to New Orleans on the run. When she died she was towed out to sea by her twelve black sons, none of whom were ever heard from again.‎Peter OgdenFounder, Grand United Order of Odd Fellows 1843 refused by white American Lodge, he applied to the mother lodge in Leeds, England and received an independent dispensation. Set up lodges all over he United States getting thousands of members. Mr. Ogden died in 1852.‎Certain Negro leaders and white southern politicians before the Civil War, both opposed sending Negroes back to Africa but for opposite reasons. The Negros said “We helped build America from the start. It is our home by every right.” The politicians said “if we let the Africans go, we’ll lose the vote we’re entitled to on their account.” A similar desire made the politicians oppose the Great Negro Migration of 1917.‎FN-16.‎King DenisOf the Gaboon, Rich West African Territory, was one of the most highly honored of Africana rulers. France took his kingdom in 1849 but gave him a large sum annually, The Cross of the Legion of Honor, a crown, gorgeous robes, royal salutes and rich presents for his harem. The Pope sent him one of his highest decorations for protecting missionaries. He died in 1876.‎Corp. Isaiah MaysCompany B, 24th Infantry, was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor, America’s Highest Decoration, in 1890. While acting as guard for an Army paymaster on May 11 1889, four robbers surprised him and attacked him. He resisted in spite of guns aimed at him and in the shooting that followed killed two of the attackers.‎FN-17.‎Sidi Moulay Mohammed Ben ArafaRecently retired ruler of Morocco. When the French deposed the present ruler, Mohammed V, he was made sultan. Sidi Moulay is to a great extent of the unmixed African stock that for centuries characterized the Moorish sultans. Of royal lineage, himself, it is said that he took the post to prevent further bloodshed and gladly relinquished it.‎Head of AhmosisEgyptian Pharaoh of about 1500 B.C. Founder of the “New Empire,” he defeated and drove out the Hyskos, or shepherd kings, who had invaded Egypt, supposedly from Asia. Invading southern Palestine, he captured the fortress of Sharuhen after a siege of three years. He immediately preceded the pharaohs of the 18th, most Negroid of the Egyptian dynasties.‎Captain William WardOf Grant Parrish, Louisiana, a Negro of the Louisiana Legislature, gathering the Negroes of his parrish, let them in an attack on the Ku Klux Klan, April 13, 1873. The Negros, fighting with cannon they made themselves, routed a stronger force of the white-shirted night riders.‎FN-18.‎The Nile ‎Ancient Bridge over in the Blue Nile in EthiopiaLongest river in the world (4.,160 miles) is also the most historic. Along its banks are the world’s oldest civilizations----the empires of Ethiopia and Egypt, which held domination of the Western world for over 4000 years. More and more it is being discovered that civilization came down, not up the Nile; that Europe was in savagery when the great pyramid was build 3730 BC.‎Tirhaquah‎ ‎Egyptian pharaoh of about 670 B.C. son of Piankhi, King of Ethiopia, who conquered all Egypt in the eight century B.C. was a general in the army of his uncle, Sabacon, who succeeded Piankhi. Tirhaquah conquered Palestine and Assyria. He is mentioned in Isaiah, the Book of Kings, and elsewhere in the Bible (Original in Carlsberg, Glyptotek, Copenhagen)‎Oregon abolished its “Black Law” on Fb. 12, 1985, which since its constitution had been written, barred Negroes, Mulattoes and later Chinese from voting. Oregon Law still forbids marriages between those having more than one fourth Negro strain and whites.‎FN-19.John James Audubon 1785-1851 ‎World-famed naturalist, and painter of birds. He is believed by many to have been of Negro ancestry. He was Haitian, illegitimate, and his mother’s name is found in a document of 1785 listing amounts paid to a physician for the treatment of Negro slaves. She and child are mentioned. Audubon was mysterious about his ancestry and used such names as Jean Rabin (his mother’s), Jean Fougere, and Jean La Forest. Became one of America’s famous citizens. Audubon Society is named for him.‎Ham MukasaNoted scholar and educator of Uganda, East Africa…Translated parts of the Four Gospels into native language and wrote a commentary on Saint Matthew that was highly praised by Bible scholars…Attended the coronation of Edward VII in 1902 and published his impressions of English life in a book that caused considerable stir in Africa and Britain…‎Buddha –From ancient buried civilization, Khmer, of Indo-China. Earliest Buddhas, who date back to the 14th century B.C., were first “saviors” of mankind. They were Indian and depicted as very black with wooly hair. Southern India and Asia were then inhabited chiefly by Negros.‎FN-20.Dr. Hastings BandaOne of the foremost and most self-sacrificing of present leaders for the freedom of Africa. Native of Nyassa-Land, he walked the thousand miles to work in the South African diamond mines and earned enough to come to study in the USA. Graduate M.D. Univ. of Chicago. Post-Graduate course at Edinburgh, Scotland. Settled in London where he built up a prosperous practice for 12 years. Gave it up to return home and was promptly exiled. Free again, he now heads the Majority Congress Party for Independence. (1962)‎The Declaration of Independence as originally written by Thomas Jefferson strongly condemned George III for the slave trad ---”For keeping open a market where men can be bought or sold.” This was stricken out. As it appeared it virtually said Negroes weren’t men, or even human beings.‎Negro Americans have been living longer than white Americans. In 1959, there were 768,000 white, 85 years. Of age and over; Negroes, 91, 000. At the ratio of 10 to 1 that would give Negroes 910,000. White women were 449,000. Negro ones, 50,000 or by ratio 500,000. Women live longer than men.‎FN-21.Most Famous Cows in the World – The sacred cattle of Ruanda, East Africa, They belong to the Watusi breed and have lyre-shaped horns with a spread of six feet. They are given magnificent care, decorated with hand-woven tassels and once a year brought before the king with great ceremony.‎In 1651, Charles II of England, then Prince of Wales, escaped to France from Cromwell’s forces by blacking his face and posing as a Negro. With him was his Negro page. The considerable number of Negroes, especially in London at that time, helped to allay suspicion. Charles, too, was quite dark and broad-featured.‎Eben-Melch – A Negro eunuch, high in the service of King Zedekiah of Jerusalem, freed the prophet Jeremiah from a filthy dungeon in which his political enemies had cast him. Restored him to the King’s favor.‎FN-22.‎Samuel L. Manuwa – M.D., O.B.E., F.R.C.S. of West Africa. One of Britain’s ablest doctors and head of the medical services in Nigeria. Top student, King’s College, he is a graduate of Edinburgh University, where he took many honors, among them the Robert Watson chemistry prize; the Welcome prize; and university demonstrator in anatomy. Diploma in tropical medicine. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. Highly praised by the government for efficiency and devotion to his work. Decorated with the O.B.E for his services by George VI in 1947.‎‎“General” Buddoe – Toussaint L’Ouverture of the Virgin Islands. Organized and led the rebellion against the slave-masters in 1848 and forced them to free their slaves. One white writer says of him, “someday a Negro scholar will use the slave uprising on St. Croix for a graduate thesis and the larger frame of Buddoe will be displayed.”‎‎“Esclave D’Amour” – by Etienne Dinet (1861-1930), famous interpreter of Algerian life and manners. Rich in color with the flowers, the stars of the night, the beauty of the drapery, and the ecstasy on the faces of the lovers. Said by critics to be one of the finest love scenes in existence. (Collection of the old Luxembourg Museum, Paris)‎FN-23.Statue of Sehetp-Ib-RE AnkhSteward of the Royal House and Treasure about 1500 B.C.. These unmixed Negroes principally from the Sudan, were known for their trustworthiness and were given high posts of honor not only in Egypt but in Arabia and all the Ancient East. (In Egyptian Dept. Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York).‎Portrait of Alice noted Negro woman who knew William Penn and Philadelphia when it was a wilderness. Was so highly regarded she was included in a book of the world’s greatest women along with such immortals as Joan of Arc and the Empress Catherin of Russia. Died at Age of 116!‎Ellen DavisA Negro Woman, inherited $250,000 in 1926 from the noted turfman John T. Hughes, of Lexington , KY.. She had been his house-keeper.‎FN-24.Sam Fraunces ‎Was an important figure in the American Revolution. His tavern, the finest in New York, was the rendezvous of George Washington and other leaders. Many of the plans for American independence were laid there. Fraunces contributed large sums to the revolution. Washington, in gratitude, made in steward of his estates. A native of the West Indies, probably Jamaica. A dark mulatto, he was known as “Black Sam” (In this portrait, he wears a wig).‎Deity from ancient Mexico. Note pepper-corn hair worked into a design like that of certain Negro statuettes of ancient Egypt or the Buddhas. According to some authorities, New World Negroes came from Africa; others say Oceania, both of which were once joined to the Americas. But Balboa, who discovered a powerful Negro tribe in Panama  in 1513 thought their ancestors had sailed over from Africa.‎Tortuga ‎The majority of Negroes living on this island, chief buccaneering center of this world were mulattoes being offspring of white pirates and Negro women. Many of the pirates, however, were Negroes.‎FN-25.William BronsonLater a sergeant, was the first to enlist in an American Black regiment. He joined the first S. Carolina volunteers on Ladies’ Island, S.C.. May, 1862. Bronson, who could neither read nor write when he enlisted, was proud of being he first of the 178,975 Negroes who served in the Civil War. He used to add after his signature, “A-1, African Foundation.”‎In 1867, the White people of Washington, D.C. voted 200 to 1 not to let Negroes vote. But Congress, then anti-slavery, gave the Negroes the ballot over the veto of President Andrew Johnson. In 1871, Congress disenfranchised both “races” to settle the dispute. ‎Two Portugese Mulattoes, Pedro Baptista and Antonio Jose, are among the foremost explorers of Africa. They were the first on record to cross that continent from ocean to ocean. Leaving Portuguese W. Africa, they travelled thousands of miles never before penetrated by civilized man, then Southward to Portugese East Africa. The journey took nine years (1802-1811).‎FN-26.‎ “African Originated Vanilla!”‎Edmond Albius – Celebrated botanic expert of the Island of Reunion, East Africa. By process of grafting he improved several tropical fruits as oranges, mangoes, tangerines, avocados. He is best known as being the originator of vanilla. Taking the wild plant, he changed it into the popular product it is today (Sketched from a reproduction of a painting of 1865 in the Reunion Museum).‎The 13th amendment (which abolished slavery) was originally invented to make slavery perpetual declaring it “state’s rights”. Passed by both houses of congress and signed by President Buchanan in 1861, it went to the states for ratification. Three states ratified it, one of them, Ohio. The south, however, by this time, wanted more than slavery; it wanted independence and started the Civil War.‎Tennessee, once strongly opposed to discrimination in public conveyances, passed a law in their general assembly making discrimination on public conveyances, because of race, illegal. Activated when Edward Shaw, a prominent Negro, had been ejected form a smoking-car on the Memphis and Ohio R.R. in 1868.‎FN-27.NapoleonWhile a prisoner at St. Helena, spent much time talking to the Negroes there. His favorite was Tobias, a slave, with whom he compared his own fate , both being on the island against their will. He bought Tobias intending to return him to this native land, Malaya, but the governor objected. Napoleon, he said, was plotting with the Blacks and ”trying to win their hearts in the hope of setting up a second Negro empire as he did in San Domingo.”‎The Morris, or Morrice Dance,‎ Once the national dance of the English, originated in Africa. One early English writer on music says, “It is indisputable that this dance was the invention of the Moor.” Morris comes from “Moor.” It is believed that the Africans who introduced it came over with William the Conqueror in 1066 A.D. Writers of that time describe Moors as “blacker” than ink.” In later years whites blackened their faces when dancing it.‎In 1811, Negroes of the Parish of St. John the Baptist, L.A. revolted with some degree of success. But later they were beaten by the militia, their heads stuck on poles along the river and farms for miles.‎FN-28.‎Capture of Negroes in Africa and Selling them in the New World was Outlawed by the nations in 1808 but great numbers continued to be bootlegged principally by New York shipowners. During the Civil War the U.S. Navy would seize stolen Africans bound for the South and by an agreement with Denmark take them to the Virgin Islands to be cared for.‎Rock Paintings from the Caverns of Lamorella, Spain, about 30,000 yrs. Old, it is believed to be the oldest evidence of the use of the bow and arrow. Since an identical pattern of the rock has been found as far south as South Africa, the bowmen are said to be Negroes, who were natives of Europe when Europe was joined to Africa. ‎Ruins of the great gold mining city of Rhodesia, South Africa. Believed to be the Ophir of the Bible from which Solomon got gold for his temple. It is said to be 3,500 years old. It is next to Egypt, greatest of Africa’s old civilizations. Some of its mighty fortifications 40ft. thick, still stand.‎FN-29.‎De Twee Negers (Two Negroes)‎ By Rembrandt (1606-69) Great Dutch painter. One of at least paintings of Negroes by him. Negroes were then plentiful in Holland and Belgium, being there in the armies of Spain, which then ruled those countries.‎The two greatest artificial waterways in the world---the Suez Canal and the Panama---were built by Negro labor. Ferdinand De Lesseps, builder of the Suez, used vast numbers of Egyptians and Sudanese to do the rough work. British West Indians did most of the digging and even handled the machinery at Panama.‎**Jose Mauricio ‎****‎1767---1830‎****First of the Great Brazilian composers. A Born musician almost self-taught. He played the violin and harpsichord as a …‎**FN-30.J. Walter Wills, Sr.‎ Head of the house of Wills. And beloved citizen of Cleveland, Ohio. Starting as a street-car conductor, he became a pioneer funeral director, prospered and devoted much of his wealth to improving the lot of the Negroes of his city. His palatial establishment, especially his Venetian room, is one of rarest artistic beauty, has trained singers, chorus, and given benefit concerts, founded a Negro College Fund Scholarship.‎Prehistoric head of a Negro of about 3000 years ago from Mexico. Leading archaeologists say the first people of tropical Central America were Negroes. Note Negroid nose and full lips of this 6ft. High, 18ft, around statue.‎Head-bumpingWas as great pastime in the American Navy. One Negro was forced to fight another by butting with the head. The heads of whites weren’t supposed to be thick enough. Herman Melville, of Moby Dick fame, tells of the cruelty of the “sport.”‎FN-31.‎Mary M. Talbert 1866-1923‎ One of the most distinguished American women of her time. Organized Negro Women of America to purchase home of Frederick Douglass and make it a shrine. Twice President National Association of Colored Women. Spingarn Medalist, Delegate International Council of Women, Norway. In Holland was house guest of Queen Wilhelmina.‎Buddoe Great leader against slavery in the Virgin Islands. In 1848 led the slaves in a successful revolt against the white masters at St. Croix and forced the govern to sign a decree of Emancipation. The revolt spread to other islands but thanks to Buddoe’s liberality, a general massacre of the Whites, as in Haiti, was avoided though many were killed.‎The ten years, 1940-1950, saw a great increase in the colored population of the north. New York City had an increase of 62.4 percent, or a total of 775,529. Chicago 80 percent or a total of 509,437. Detroit, 101.4 percent or a total of 303,721. In the South there were some decreases such as Charleston S.C. from 31,787 to 30,887.‎FN-32.‎Akenzua Oba of Benin, West Africa, in his traditional Kingly Dress. Benin was one of the most powerful of the West African kingdoms before the coming of the whites in 1485. It is world-famed for its Bronzes which today are worth more than their weight in gold. It is now a part of Southern Nigeria.‎Barakat,‎ An Ethiopian slave, is held in the highest reverence throughout the Mohammedan countries. She suckled and reared Mohamet after the death of his mother.‎Tommie Bibbs, Winona, Miss., ‎Was awarded first prize as the best farmer in four states --- Arkansas, Mississippi, Missouri, and Tennessee in 1960. His herd of 70 Jersey cows which produced 22,000 Gallons of Grade A Milk was judged the finest. So were his corn, cotton, and truck crops. Also awarded another first prize was J.W. Rencher.‎FN-33.‎William Wells Brown Historian and great anti-slavery agitator. Born in slavery, Lexington KY. About 1814, he escaped north in 1834, worded on a Lake Erie boat and aided 69 slaves to reach Canada. Sent in 1849 as a delegate to the Peace Conference in Paris. He remained in Europe till 1854, lecturing and pleading the cause of Abolition. He met such statesmen as Bright, Cobden, Gladstone, Disraeli, and Palmerston and wrote sketches of them. Of his eight or more books, his autobiography is the finest, being well written and full of interesting detail.‎‎“Negro Woman of the Colonies” by Charles Cordier in the Luxemburg Museum, Paris. These black women, before and after the Revolution, were sought after especially in Paris. One, Casais, married D’isalguire, a nobleman of toulouse; another , Fortunee, married Hamelin, Richest banker of the revolution and was later chief female friend of Napoleon. Another, Jeanne Duval was the greatest influence in the life of Baudelaire, said to be France’s greatest poet.‎Tirhaquah Ethiopian ruler of Egypt, about 690 B.C. Nephew of Piankhi, Ethiopian Emperor who conquered Egypt about 720 B.C.. A mighty warrior himself, he invaded Assyria and Palestine, and defeated Sennacherib, king of Syria. Later he warred with Essarhaddon, and drove him out when he invaded Egypt. His features show him to be an unmixed African.‎FN-34.West Ford Known as the Negro son of George Washington. Several white writers say that Washington, like other slave holders of his time, had Negro off-spring but others as strongly deny it and say it was British propaganda. This sketch is from a reproduction of a painting owned by Major George W. Ford of Springfield, Illinois.‎Note Ford’s striking resemblance to this sketch of Washington.‎Negro cavalrymen were highly praised by the late Gen. John J. Pershing for their great valor during the Spanish-American War in 1898. He wrote, “This dusky 10th Cavalry is my regiment and it was inspiring to accompany them. Our losses were 20 percent killed and wounded.” Pershing was known as “Black Jack” because of his long command of Negro troops.‎Egyptian Pharaoh of the first Dynasty, probably Menes, of 4500 B.C. Egyptian rulers were worshipped as gods and the first Egyptian gods came from Nubia then a part of Ethiopia. The Ethiopians, according to Diodorus Siculus, ancient historian, claimed they were the first to worship the gods and that they had colonized Egypt.‎FN-35.‎Uah-Abra Governor of the Western Delta, one of Egypt’s most important divisions, about 660 B.C. He was probably appointed by Tirhaquah, ruler of Egypt, Ethiopia and Syria, and nephew of the great conqueror, Piankhi. (Tirhaquah, mentioned in the Bible, was an unmixed Negro, as seen by his portraits.) Uah-abra’s statue is in the British museum. The nose was struck off. Hostile successors used to treat monuments thus.‎J.C. Matthews First known Negro judge in New York State. He was on the Democractic Ticket at Albany, the capital, about 1892.‎Lewis Howard Latimer A Negro, drew the plans, for the first Bell Telephone. Also pioneer in in electricity inventing the carbon filament for the Maxim Electric Lamp.. Superintended installation of Electric Street Lights in N.Y. City, Philadelphia and London, England. Chief draftsman for General Electric and Westinghouse. Was one of 28 Edison Pioneers...Associated with Thomas Edison from 1896 to his Death, Dec. 11, 1928.‎FN-36.‎Ivory Pendant Mask of Benin, West Africa. Carved from a single piece, it is one of the finest specimens of artistic workmanship known. Its minute details and striking realism, which is supposed to represent a ruler has long been the admiration of art lovers the world over. Executed about1500 A.D. In ivory carving the people of Benin were unexcelled.‎William A. Sessarakoo Of Annamboe, West Africa. Was one of London’s most colorful dandies of the 18th century. Negroes of that time were pages and favorites in the homes of royalty, the nobility and the rich ...with little or no color prejudice, some of them were admitted to the most exclusive clubs… He is wearing a wig…‎FN-37.Victor Mazuline Representative of Martinique, West Indies, to the French National Assembly in Paris in 1848, and during the presidency of Louis Napoleon, later Napoleon III. He was noted for his stand on the rights of the people, on education and free speech.‎‎128 Negroes are listed in the 8th edition of American Men of Science, a record of those who are contributing most to pure science in the nation. Their accomplishments cover such fields as Chemistry, medicine, mathematics, embryology, physics, agriculture and anatomy.‎The 50,000 Negroes of New York City sent 4,125 men to the fighting front in the Civil War who served well and faithfully although one of the worse race riots in America was staged against them in that city. For five days in July 1863, white mobs, largely Irish, roamed the city, hanging Negroes to lamp posts and trees in Central Park, and setting afire the Colored Orphan Asylum with 233 children.‎FN-38.‎“Uncle” Ike Sims‎ The record for having the highest number of sons in the army during World War I was held by Two Negroes...Rev. R.H. Winslow of Rayville, Ala. had 12. Two were twins and three triplets. He received a congratulatory letter from President Wilson. Mrs. Sims. who was 87 had 11 sons with 3 more to be called, a total of 14.‎Filipino, one of an ancient tribe of small people believed to be original inhabitants of the Philippines. Later mixed with Mongolians and Spaniards to form its present population. The ETAs of Southern Japan are also believed to be of Negrito ancestry.‎Bushman painting of about 25,000 to 50,000 B. C. from Prehistoric South Africa, most ancient so far known. The elongated figure of the man running from a rhinoceros while his dog follows is intended to give the idea of his speed. Relics of these ancient Negroes have been found as far north as Central Russia.‎FN-39.The first decade of the 20th century saw formidable opponents of the Negro. Among them were Senator Tillman of South Carolina, who went over the country advocating lynching. Tom Dixon wrote “The Leopard Spots;“ Carroll, “The Negro: A Beast”; Shufeldt, “The Negro: A Menace to American Civilization”: Grant, The Ethiopian” ETC., Most of them faded out after World War I.‎Charles Edmund Nash‎1844-1913‎One of the most admirable figures of the Reconstruction in Louisian. Starting as a bricklayer, he enlisted in the Chasseurs D’Afrique of the Union Army where he lost a leg. In 1874, he was elected to Congress from the 6th Louisiana District. He consistently preached brotherhood. “We are not enemies but brethren,” he told Blacks and whites.”This is our joint inheritance. Over Brother’s Graves, Let Brother’s Quarrels Die.”‎Sherrod Bryant Of Davidson County, Tenn., In 1850 was one of the richest men in his state. He was taxed on real estate valued at $15,000 (a large sum then). His property in slaves who worked his farm, which and a large amount of livestock and farm implements, was $10,900. Like the whites, he lost his slaves after the defeat of the South in 1865.‎FN-40.Pastor Argudin – One of the greatest painters of the Americas. Native of Cuba, he studied in Paris and Madrid. His work has been exhibited widely in Europe, Latin-America, and the United States. In 1927, he was commissioned by Cuba to do two large murals for the senate. His paintings have been purchased by leading museums in Europe and America. Among his awards are a gold medal and the Cross of Carlos Manuel De Cespedes, Cuba’s highest decoration. In 1949, Collier’s reproduced his portrait of Abraham Lincoln.‎In 1830, Negroes held slaves in 23 states and the District of Columbia, included were Connecticut, New York, Maine, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. Louisiana, Virginia, and South Carolina had the most Negro slaveholders. Negroes once bought white people, too. They were not prohibited from doing so in Louisiana until 1818.‎‎ Before the Civil War, New Orleans had the wealthiest Negroes in America. Great landowners and slaveholders they would be rated millionaires today. There were 8 Negro Commodity brokers in the New Orleans Cotton Exchange. Thomy Lafon, plantation owner, left more than a million in money of our time to charity.‎FN-41.‎“Othello”‎ By Louis Corinth, German Painter (1858-1925)  Probably represents the famous Shakespearean character when he was first brought to Italy as a slave. The original Othello is said to be Johannis, an ex-slave, who rose to a high position in Venice, and is mentioned in records of that time. The name “Othello” is said to have originated in Germany.‎Gabrielle Sidonie Colette, France’s foremost female writer. Legion of Honor and President of Goncourt Academy, one of Europe’s highest literary societies. Short-story writer, newspaperwoman, and drama critic as well as actress, she has written more than 50 books. Madame Colette says herself that her grandfather, Henri Marie Landay, was a mulatto. One of France’s most beloved citizens.‎In 1892, W. H. Styles, ex-slave and member of the Georgia Legislature, was presented with a fine gold-headed cane and splendidly framed portrait of himself by the white confederate veterans of Georgia for his support of the Soldier’s Home Project. Styles, who had served in the Confederate Army, was hailed as a “Great Legislator.”‎FN-42.Miriam Makeba South African singer, after her glowing success in Europe, has taken New York music lovers by storm. She sings the traditional songs of her native lands as “Intoyam” and Lacoochanmila” and American tunes as “Willow Weep for Me” Her most popular songs are from “King Kong,” a native opera which ran for a year in Johannesburg, South Africa.‎Fulgencio Nazario 12 year old champion painter of New York City. Student at the Brooklyn-Micio Centre, P.A.L. and Art Students League, he won two awards. For his still life of fruit and two pen-and-ink sketches he received the gold medal. And for “Significant Progress and Cooperation.” the Howard Chandler Christy Memorial Award for 1959.‎‎“Dick the Drummer”," A Negro enlisted in the Confederate Army in 1861. A Veteran of the Mexican War of 1846. He was skilled with the Bowie Knife and a crack shot. He once captured single-handed, a squad of union solders led by Colonel Wood of the 14th Brooklyn Regiment.‎FN-43.Wooden Carving of the Head of a Native of Palestine, home of the Jews, found in the tomb of Tutankhamen of Egypt. Note the pronounced Negro face. The peoples of all that-part of the East had a greater or less degree of African strain, especially after its conquest by Egypt.‎Stephen Bishop, A Negro did most of the dangerous work of exploring the Mammonth Cave of Kentucky, one of the scenic wonders of the United States. He was also the first guide. Of course, it was first known to the Indians.‎Henry Lewis Brilliant young orchestra conductor. Returning to America after being conductor of the Seventh Army Orchestra in Germany, where he won high praise, he joined the Los Angeles Philharmonic as Double-bass player. When the regular conductor was ill, he took his place. Recently conducted at New York University.‎FN-44.The negro's hair is supposed to be the shortest of all but a seemingly unmixed negro woman had the longest hair ever known. She was Nancy Garrison of Holly Springs, Miss.. Her hair was 11 feet long, or 2 feet 9 inches longer than the net longest, Miss Owens, White. Mrs. Garrison's hair was of the "wooly" kind, too. She was born in 1848. (Sketched from a reproduction of photo taken in 1896.)Abraham Lincoln has at first the usual prejudice against negroes. In Jan., 1862, when urged to use them in the war, he said angrily, "What's all this itching to get niggers into our lines?" However, 19 months later when they were helping to win battles, he wrote to the whites of Springfield, Ill., that in days to come "black men can remember that with silent tongue, clenched teeth, steady eye and well-poised bayonet have helped mankind on to this great consummation" while there will be "some white" who will be unable to forget that with "malignant heart and deceitful speech" they tried "to hinder it."Moyses The Ethiopian A giant negro slave of the 4th century, became a saint of the catholic church. Escaping from his master, he became a robber and was noted for his strength and ferocity. He was converted by Abbot Isadore and was later famous for his good deeds.FN-45.Superb example of ancient Negro art. One of hundreds of the fine bronzes unearthed in the city of IFE, Nigeria, which existed between 800 and 1300 A.D…Art experts say that neither the ancient Greeks nor the best Italian artists like Benvenuto Cellini produced anything finer. Thomas Jefferson, however, inferred that Negroes were inferior since he had never seen “even an elementary trait of painting of sculpture” in one of them.‎Ernest King – An automobile and a Negro, made the outstanding contribution to radio in 1925. By his invention of an automatic control which he sold to the Atwater-Kent corporation on a royalty basis.‎James B. Floyd (1806-1863)‎ proud Virginia aristocrat, U.S. Secretary of War, governor of Virginia (1850) candidate for the presidency of the U.S. and later Confederate general, once was called a Negro by an Indian chief. At a dinner party, Floyd who was “dark-complexioned and had crispy, wiry hair” wishing to make the chief feel at home, told him he, too, had Indian blood and was descended from Pocahontas. The chief, taking a good look at Floyd said, “No, no. You negur (negro).” The other guests had trouble keeping from laughing”.‎FN-46.Africa is emerging more and more as the original home of the present human race. The oldest skulls have been discovered there. Professors Broom and Dart have discovered very ancient human and pre-human skulls in South Africa and Doctor Leakey one on an island in Lake Victoria. LIFE Magazine showed modern man as being descended from Boskopman, a bushman of 40,000 or more years ago.‎Before the Civil War, color prejudice was much stronger in the North than in the South. Boston, New York, Philadelphia had Jim Crow Cars; the South, none. Rich Southern Negro Slavemasters rode beside white Masters and went to the same church. Mixed marriages were legal in several states. After the war, the South used Jim-Crow to make up for the economic loss caused by the Emancipation.‎Grover Cleveland When elected President in 1884 on the Democratic ticket, a great number of Negroes in the South, seeing the Southern Whites had gone wild with the victory with Cannon thundering and fireworks, felt sure that it all meant a return to slavery. Northern friends begged Cleveland to reassure the Negroes but he didn’t. Cleveland later, boasted in the press, how as governor of New York, he had opposed mixed schools there. ‎FN-47.Head of Olmec Deity from Ancient Mexico. 100 A. D. or earlier. Weighs nearly 20 tons and is carved from a single block of stone. Proof positive that Negroes lived in America before Columbus. Some Latin-American archaeologists say that the first Mexican gods were Negroes. The Olmecs built vast cities and great pyramids.‎An African Negro girl Jamaica, West Indies is credited with saving the life of Lord Nelson, naval hero who did most to save England from Napoleon. In 1780, when he was stricken with fever and dysentery in Nicaragua, and brought ashore at Port Royal, Jamaica at death’s door she gave him an African remedy that checked the disease. She died in 1848.‎FN-48.Hapte Mikael Ethiopia’s “Grand Old General”. One of the commanders of the Ethiopian army under Menelik II, he helped in the defeat of Italy at the Battle of Adowa in 1896. During the Italo-Ethiopian War, 1935-36, he was the first to face the armies of Mussolini and though very poorly armed gave a good account of themselves.‎‎ Gold ornaments and utensils found at Dhlo-Dhlo, one of the 120 ancient towns of Rhodesia, excavated in 1903. These towns, which flourished about 2300 years ago extend over an area of some 180 square miles. Among others are Mundie, M’bopoti, and Zymbabwe, which has walls of granite 3o feet high and solid now as when they were built.‎From earliest times there has been a Negro strain in the peoples of Syria, Palestine and most of the Near East countries. The Turks especially had mostly Negro soldiers when they dominated Islam. According to a Jewish legend, when the Jews returned from Babylonian captivity, they found the population black. Jewish women having had Negro husbands.‎FN-49.First Negro to Win Congressional Medal of Honor William h. Carney At Ft. Wagner, S. C. July 18, 1863, he seized the flag when the color-sergeant fell, and led the assault. Though badly wounded he kept it flying. When praised for his exceptional bravery he said, “I only did my duty. The old flag never touched the ground.” In another battle, Chapin’s Farm, VA. Sept. 29, 1864, thirteen Negroes won the highest medal the same day. No Negroes were given this medal in World Wars I and II due very likely to the campaign of Negro depreciation which began under Woodrow Wilson.‎Moses Sash, Veteran of the revolution, an unmixed Negro, was one of the leaders of Shay’s rebellion in Massachusets in 1786. Sash, mentioned as “Captain” had enlisted in 1777. He was one of the 33 indicted and was charged with “unlawfully and seditiously with force of arms, advise, and procure divers persons to revolt.” High taxes and political irregularities had caused the revolt under Daniel Shay (White).‎Davy A Negro slave managed George Washington’s farm at Muddy Hole, VA.. with good knowledge of farming and stock-breeding, he was free in all but name.‎FN-50.Edgar G. Brown ‎Dynamic fighter for civil rights. Organized low-paid government employees of Washington and got them good increase. Organized National Negro Council. Fought discrimination in the air force with success, also the submitting of photos when applying for civil service jobs. Educated at Northwestern University, he held national tennis championship for four years. Has many trophies. Died March 1954.‎Raphael A Haitian Negro was perhaps Europe’s most famous clown in the 1910’s-1920’s. So popular, other clowns imitated him. In 1911, France gave him the Legion of Honor. Popularly known as “CHOCOLAT”.‎Mathias De Sousa A Negro, was one of the first settlers of the colony of Maryland in 1633. The white colonists, 200 in number, came from England by way of Barbados, West Indies. It is believed that De Sousa piloted their ship, “The Ark and The Dove” from there to the Chesapeake Bay. De Sousa was a ship captain, He is mentioned in the writings of the times as a skipper and trader with the Indians.‎FN-51.James M. Trotter Born Grand Gulf, Mississippi 1844, was one of the few Negro officers in the Civil War. Enlisting in the 54th Massachusetts as a private, he rose to be a Lieutenant. In 1887, was appointed recorder of Deeds in Washington. He wrote the first important work on the Negro in music, “Music and Some Highly Musical People”. Father of the celebrated William Monroe Trotter.‎Hassan Abd-El-Rehim ‎An Egyptian mulatto, called “The Bronze Giant” broke all records for swimming the English channel August 22nd, 1950. He did it in 10 hours, 50 minutes. He was also the first to achieve 3 successful crossings. He won the Daily Mail Prize of $2,800…In 1939, he swam 60 continuous miles in the Nile estuary.‎Billy Sims ‎American Negro jockey, originated “The Crouch Style” of riding, which, by cutting down wind resistance enabled him to beat the best horses and riders. “Boss” Crocker, a millionaire, took him to England to ride there. Soon, jockeys on both sides of the Atlantic were imitating him. Among them the famous English jockey, Todd Sloan.‎FN-52.Edwin G. Walker Of Boston Mass. Said to be the first Negro elected to a state legislature in America. The date is 1863. He later served as a judge and was specially commanded by General Butler. He had been a practicing attorney at the time.‎Antar ‎(600 A.D.) Is Islam’s greatest poet and so famous a warrior that immense legends have been woven about him. He is known as “the father of heroes.” One of his poems accorded the highest honor: It was hung in the Mosque at Mecca  during his lifetime. Rimsky-Korsakoff’s symphony is based on his life. His mother was an Ethiopian slave. (Drawing is from sketch of “Antar” by Etienne Dinet (1861-1930), noted interpreter of Algerian life \& peoples.‎Negroes settled in Virginia 83 years before the coming of white people. Brought there in 1526 by the Spaniards to found a colony they revolted, drove out the Spaniards and remained. The whites came in 1607. Capt. John Smith saw them there about that time, mixed with IndiansFN-53.George Shirley Said to be the first Negro winner of a Metropolitan Opera Auditions, which gives him a contract with the Metropolitan and a Chambers Scholarship of $2000. Graduate in music from Wayne Univ., he has already been popular in Italy and the USA. Has a\[\[eared on NBC-TV Opera and the New England Theater.‎Josiah T. Settle Born about 1856 in Tennessee, was one of the ablest lawyers and politicians in the South. Won an independent ticket as member of Mississippi Legislature (1883-1885). Twice delegate to Republican National Convention 1892 and 1900. Served as Assistant Attorney-General of Criminal Courts in Memphis, Tennessee.‎Up to 1915, the U.S. Supreme Court was the greatest foe of Civil Rights. Between 1878 and 1876 it killed bit by bit the Civil Rights Act, passed by Congress in 1875, which outlawed Jim Crow everywhere. It ruled as unconstitutional the demand for equal travel accommodations, that Negroes serve on juries, attend white schools, etc. It finally legalized the Jim Crow car.‎FN-54.William Still 1821-1902‎ Born a slave in New Jersey, he became one of the greatest anti-slavery figures. He used his moment in Philadelphia at great risk to himself, to harbor escaped slaves. Later a leading figure in the Underground Railroad which aided slaves to escape to Canada. Friend of John Brown, who had escaped from Harper’s Ferry. Still’s book, “Underground Railroad,” published in 1871, is one of the most remarkable records of slave days.‎Woman warriors of Dahomey, Africa. 5,000 of them were recruited from the strongest young women. They ranked above the men and were noted for their valor in battle. A white commander who fought against them wrote, “They fight with extreme braver, exciting by their courage and indomitable energy the other troops that follow.”‎Portrait of a Daughter of Akhenaton (Amenophis IV) Egyptian Pharaoh of the 18th Dynasty or about 1350 B.C.. She shows the Negroid strain which is said to have been more pronounced in this dynasty than in any other.‎FN-55.‎An Indian of South Carolina who lived before Columbus. His body, found high in the Andes, was preserved entirely by the cold for over 400 years. His features are Negroid, supporting the archaeologists of Latin America, who generally agree that Negroes lived in America long before Columbus. Some even say they were the first inhabitants of the so-called New World. Columbus called them Indians because he thought he had reached India.‎In 1703 in Boston, Mass. in an effort to disarm Negroes, a law was passed that “No Indian, Negro, or Mulatto, should carry a stick or cane by day or night unless he was lame or decrepit...”‎Ancient iron furnace of Central Africa. Africans are believed to be the first to use iron. Nino de Grande discovered prehistoric iron furnaces in Rhodesia. The first known iron implement, a spear was discovered in a grave of Upper Egypt about 4000 B.C.‎FN-56.‎Dr. J. E. Kwegyir Aggrey Born in West Africa, educated at Livingstone College, N. C. and Columbia University, he contributed greatly to the education and advancement of Africa. Member of the Phelps-Stokes expedition he visited Nigeria, Cameroons, Belgian Congo, Ethiopia, South Africa, Uganda, and other parts, instilling pride in the people with his superb wit and oratory. “Whoever is not proud of his color is not fit to live,” he would say. Was one of the founders of Achimota College.‎An English newspaper once called a wealthy East Indian, much in the news, “Colored.” Several American writers objected and said he was white. In 1922 when a U. S. District Court ruled that an East Indian doctor resident was white, the U.S. government objected. Though proven by scientific evidence to be white, the U. S. Supreme Court ruled East Indians not white. (1923)‎Daughters of aristocratic slaveholders not infrequently bore children by Negroes. A young white daughter of General Robert Howe (1732-1786) of Revolutionary War Fame, had two children by a negro slave of the family.‎FN-57.Charles C. Dawson One of America’s ablest artists. Graduated with honors, Chicago Art Institute, won several first prizes among them Charles Peterson and Eames McVeagh for best portrait. Was curator, Carver Museum, Tuskegee, his travelling exhibit shown in South Africa and in the U.S. served as lieutenant in World War I. Author: “ABC of Great Negroes”; Lives in Bucks County, PA. Neighbor and friend of famous Pearl Buck.‎Ezzat Jaafar Bey ‎Prime minister of the sultan of Kuwait, and one of the world’s richest men. Devoted to the advancement of his people, Kuwait, on the Persian Gulf, though a small country is said to be the world’s richest spot in oil. It’s people, like those of adjoining Arabia, have been a mixture of Asian and African from the days of the Pharaohs.‎The Bowie Knife Made famous by Col. James Bowie of Texas, is said to have been invented by Manuel, a Negro servant or slave of Bowie’s brother. Manuel, a skilled blacksmith, designed it with a peculiar point sharp ended on both edges.‎FN-58.Jean Arneaux ‎Born in Georgia in 1855. Educated in New York and Paris, France. Ranked with the leading Shakespearean players of his time. Won the gold medal of the New York Sun as the best amateur Shakespearean player in America. Delighted large audiences at the Globe Theatre, N.Y. with his Richard III, and as Iago in Othello. Wrote for leading periodicals and was on the staff of the New York World. ‎Count de Gobineau‎1861-1882‎Father of the doctrine of white superiority thought Negories were the first and finest great artists.‎He said “The source from which the arts have sprung is concealed in the BLood of the Blacks.” “A living art which touches miraculously to the extreme limits of perfectin.”‎Sketch is of an Ashanti Gold Weight (Imaginative art at its best).‎Graham W. Jackson Chief Petty Officer of Atlanta, GA., is credited with being the single individual who sold the highest amount of War Bonds in World War II. He sold over $2,000,000 and received a total of six awards from the Treasury. A skilled pianist and guitarist, he was a popular figure at rallies.‎FN-59.MohametA very Black man, founded the religion with the greatest number of followers next to Christianity. Beginning his life as a camel drive, he got his start by marrying a wealthy woman. Convinced his people that there was only one god. His religion became the dominant one in the world for centuries...Mohamet’s slogan was, “There is but one God, and Mohamet is his prophet.” In his religion all races and nationalities are equal.‎Bobby Dobbs,‎ Great light weight fighter, fought from 1875 to 1910 … 35 years!‎FN-60.A Negro woman of remarkable beauty was Empress of China in the fourth century. Formerly a concubine of Emperor Hsaio Wu, 373-397 A.D., she became his wife. She was probably of Negro African descent and not one of the Nakhis, or unmixed Negro People who still live in Southern China. African Negroes once came in great numbers to China.‎Judith I – Queen of the Falashas, or Black Jews of Ethiopia, succeeded in putting the line of Solomon off the throne of Ethiopia and ruled it for 40 years (937-977 A.D.). A fierce warrior, she was surnamed East (fire) for her attacks on the Coptics (Christians). The Falashas claim they are the original Jews.‎Major General Godfrey Wetzel ‎Of the Northern Army when given Negro soldiers by Lincoln objected strenuously at first but later liked them so well, he wanted no others. In April 1865 with the 25th Army Corps, composed solely of Negroes, he occupied Richmond The Confederate Capital.‎FN-61.Jose Jiminez ‎A Cuban, born 1855, was a musical sensation in Europe. Studying piano under Marmontel in Paris, he won the first prize of the Paris Conservatory at eighteen. Leading critics pronounced his interpretations of Rubenstein, Lizst, Chopin, Mendelssohn, and Beethoven, marvelous. He became the idol of music lovers and wherever he appeared great crowds turned out to hear him. He wrote much for the piano, too, his best-known piece being “Rapsodias Cubanas”.‎Dr. Charles E. Bentley, 1859-1929 – Great pioneer in Dentistry. Founded the Odontographic (now Chicago Dental Socy) in 1883, which originated dental care for school children. Graduate Howard University was professor of oral surgery Harvey Medical College and Jenner Medical of Chicago. Was chairman of the Dental Congress of 1903 at which 3000 dentists and 1000 students were present. In 1898, was appointed head of dental clinics at St. Louis, Exposition, a post which virtually made him the nation’s foremost dentist, even though he finally resigned in disgust at the wave of protest from the South.‎African Negroes when brought to northern Brazil, grafted the white man’s religion on to their own African ones. A noted Brazilian anthropologist said of them, “Officially, they are the Catholics, but behind the cult of the saints and the Catholic ceremonies they continue to worship their old African gods.”‎FN-62.Washerwoman Became One of the Greatest Evangelists of Her Time 1837-1915‎ Amanda Smith Born a slave in Maryland and while educating herself she worked as a washerwoman, preached in Negro churches. In 1879, she went to Italy, France, India, and Egypt where she engaged in missionary work, and later to Liberia, Sierra Leone and the Gold Coast. Thrilled vast audiences in England with her dynamic faith and eloquence. In 1890, she founded an orphan home near Chicago. She had many friends among the great. Her autobiography, written by herself, was a best seller.‎Mareen Hassan Hamad Officer in the King of Egypt’s bodyguard. Won London Daily Mail Award of $2800 in the 1951 Contest to Swim the English Channel. Did it in 12 hours. He is 6 ft. 5, and weighs 250lbs. Refused the prize money saying the newspapers had slandered his king. Was well rewarded by King Farouk.‎Negro woman from a reconstruction by Rutot in the Belgian Academy. Skeletons of these Grimaldi  Negroes were discovered in France in 1909. They are believed to have lived in Europe up to 15,000 years ago, and were noted for their art. Grimaldi skeletons are now in Paris, France.‎FN-63.John Paul Jones ‎Founder of the American navy praised highly the Negroes who served under him. A large plantation owner in Virginia, he freed his slaves. He said that he had fought so hard for human rights “that I can no longer bring myself to a distinction based on color or misfortune”. Of two of his former slaves, Cato and Scipio, who fought under him against the British, he said, “They are prime seaman and behaved as well as any white men”.‎Masterpiece of Benin Art (West Africa) ‎Bronze head surmounted by an elephant tusk, the whole being over 6 ft. in length. The carving on the tusk all done by native artists, has been rated by art experts the equal of the finest ivory carving in the entire history of art.‎Negroes lived in Brazil before the coming of the white or the introduction of African slavery. Chevalier de Pigaffetta, who made the first voyage around the world with Magellan, wrote that in a region uninhabited by white he saw natives who were “black” and with “wooly hair on the head”. This was in 1519.‎FN-64.Higiemonte Negro painter of about the 17th century. The quality of his work is highly praised by Joachim Von Sandrart, who lists him among the world’s greatest painters., in his monumental work “Academia Nobilissimae artis pictoriae” published in 1683. This sketch was made from a portrait from that book.‎George Washington was so pleased with the poem that Phylis Wheatly wrote in his honor that he invited her to his headquarters where he received her with the “most polite attention” and chatted with her for half an hour. He addressed her as “Mrs.”, a title reserved for white women of the upper class in those times.‎Negro youth from a Greek bronze of about 300 B.C. showing African style of dressing the hair. The back hair of Apollo, Greek god of manly youth and of beauty, poetry and music, shows a similar negroid effect but rather more pepper-corn. A later Greek coin of Christ in the Byzantine period shows the same wooly effect.‎FN-65.Elizabeth Keckley ‎1818-1907‎ One of the ablest women, though but an employee, who ever lived in the White House. Closest friend and confidante of Mary Todd, wife of Abraham Lincoln, she had been born a slave and had bought her freedom. A skilled dressmaker, she had worked for Jefferson Davis. Coming to Washington she worked for rich families until she came to Mrs. Lincoln, who became extremely attached to her. Her book, “Behind the Scenes,” dealing principally with Mrs. Lincoln, was the literary sensation of 1868. Later she taught domestic science at Wilberforce University and prepared the Negro Exhibit for the Columbian Exposition.‎Jose Candido Esposito 1734-1770 ‎One of Spain’s most renowned bull-fighters. Born of an aristocratic white mother and a Negro servant, he is mentioned in records of the times as a “Mulatto”. His agility, grace and daring in the arena made him immensely popular. His death in the arena was mourned as a national disaster.‎During the building of the Welland Canal between Lake Erie and Lake Ontario, the Canadian government used Negro Mounted soldiers in Red Coats to preserve order among two rival bands of Irish laborers after the local white police could do nothing. Matters came to a head in the “Battle” of Slabtown, July 12, 1849, with the Negro police victorious.‎FN-66.Throne of Behanzin, King of Dahomey (1841-1906) Carved from a single block of ebony, it is one of the finest examples of African impressionistic art. The Upper tier shows the king under the royal umbrella with his favorite wives. Below are male members of the court. Captured by France in 1894, it is now in the Musee De L’Homme, Paris.‎In 1821, the Constitutional Convention of New York by a hard fought vote of 63 to 59 permitted Negroes to vote. Voting laws had previously read: “That every white male citizen of 21 years … be entitle to vote.”‎Jews probably adopted their law against the use of port while in slavery in ancient Egypt during 430 years … the Mohammedans and most modern Ethiopians do not eat pork.‎FN-67.Dr. Caroline Anderson 1848-1919. Born in Philadelphia. Daughter of William Still, famous Underground Railroad leader. Got MD from Women’s College in 1876. Interned at the New England Hospital. Who’s Who said, “One of Philadelphia’s Foremost Women … Pioneer of her sex in the field of Medicine.” Founded YWCA of that city.‎Eurybiates, Bard and warrior was one of the leading heroes of the classic Trojan WAr in Ancient Greece. Homer, most famous poet of antiquity compares him with Ulysses. Homer speaks of the “wooly locks and black skin of Eurybiates in whose large soul alone Ulysses viewed an image of his own‎Drawings of giraffes done by Negroes more than 15,000 years ago. In the Hoggar, Sahara Desert, Africa. Their drawings in the caves of South Africa, done before the oldest known civilization still unexcelled. The fine prehistoric drawings in the caves of France and Spain are also of African pattern. Europe was once joined to Africa. ‎FN-68.Statue of Alexander Dumas Erected in Principal Square at his birthplace, Villiers-Cotter-Et, near Paris, it was melted down by the Germans in 1941 with hundreds of other statues to make bullets. The magnificent statue to him in Paris was allowed to remain. Dumas, of Negro ancestry, still holds the world’s greatest romancer.‎Julius LeVonne Chambers 24 year old integration students, University of North Carolina Law School. AS top man in his class of 100, he one the post of Editor-in-Chief of the North Carolina Law Review in 1961. Of the 8,500 students in the University there are 35 Negroes.‎Ghana Great West African empire which lasted from the 4th to the 13th century A.D., was once one of the leading in the western world. El Bekri, who saw it, says it had  200,000 warriors, of which 40, 000 were archers. Stone houses, jewels, gold, fine art, and a prosperous commerce in cotton, wool, gold, silk and hides. Was destroyed resisting Islam invitation from the North.‎FN-69.Casanova de Seingalt 1725 - 1798‎ Outstanding figure of the age of love. One of the world’s greatest adventurers, and author of the famous “Memoirs” in twelve volumes. Prince de Ligne, who knew him, says he was tall, built like a Hercules and would be handsome were it not for his ugly features and his “African Complexion.” Born in Venice, he belonged to the Noble Zaguri family, which has unmixed Negroes in its coat-of-arms, and was said to be of Moorish ancestry. In is memories he calls himself “Brown.”‎Major William Williams 1864- 1927‎ A Negro was public administrator of Chelsea, Mass., 19,000 population for 18years had also been president of the board of Alderman, served as Captain in the Famous Colonel 6th Regiment, Mass. Spanish-American War.‎William De Fleurville “Billy the Barber” 1806-1868 was a life-long and intimate friend of Abraham Lincoln. Born in Haiti, he came to America and reached Illinois on his way North where he met a tall man in a red flannel shirt carrying an axe. It was Lincoln who got him a job. Later he opened a barber show in Springfield with Lincoln One of his regular customers. “Billy” bought much real estate and later became wealthy.‎FN-70.Nupe King. One of the 448 stone statues representing kings, queens and other royalty of the vanished Nupe Kingdom of West Africa. Unearthed in 1937. The figures seem so alive critics have called them stone-carving at its best. Nupe, like Ghana, Ife, Songhay, and other West African civilizations flourished in the Middle Ages and later. Note the power on the face of this king.‎Septimius Severus ‎146-211 A.D.‎ A native African, with a heavy African accent, rose to be emperor of Rome. His rival for the throne was Niger, whom he defeated Severus increased greatly Roman power in the east and completed the conquest of Britain. (Note: Niger indicates Negro origin. Negro comes from Niger. Blacks from the River Niger, West Africa, brought it to Rome and as such it got into Latin.)‎The English and French invasion of Egypt has happened before. In 1881, Arabi Pasha, a Mulatto from the rains, led an anti-European revolt. He won such popularity that the Khedive, or ruler, made him minister of war. The English and French sent a fleet to Alexandria on which an enraged populace massacred the Europeans. Arabi Pasha prepared for war but was beaten by the British under Lord Wolseley at El-El-Kebir, Sept. 13, 1882.‎FN-71.‎James Beckwourth Ex-slave and one of the greatest trail-blazers of the West. Reaching Colorado in the 1820s as a member of a fur-trapping expedition, he became one of the foremost explorers of the Rockies and the Sierras. Discovered a pass in the Sierras for wagons, now named in his honor, that helped greatly in the early growth of California was later a U.S. government scout and chief of the Crow Indians. Helped found the cities of Denver and Pueblo, Colorado. The story of his life is told in his autobiography.‎Emblem with Negro face, discovered in an ancient Indian grave in Connecticut. It resembles Negro deities seen on the ancient monuments of Central America. The late Prof. Weiner of Harvard in his “Africa and the Discovery of America,” says that Negroes before Columbus came as far as the New England states. The emblem was presented to Baron Humboldt (1769-1859) by Baron Neuville French ambassador.‎In New York City in 1703 there was an average of three Negroes in many white families. A list of the 746 families that year gives 328 as having more than one per family. The Ten Eyck Family had ten. Most of them were slaves. Northern Negroes also held slaves. That census was of families alone. Free Negroes are not included (Free and Single).‎FN-72.‎Buddha According to Buddhist writings which are 1300 years older than the oldest Christian ones, the first Buddha, Ies Christina, was born 1366 B.C. in India. He was wooly or peppercorn hair as shown here. Most noted Buddha was Gautama, 6th century B.C. Though there are now Chinese, Japanese, and European-looking Buddhas, the first ones appear as unmixed Negroes. Buddhism, after 3300 years, is still one of the world’s great religions, being the principal one in the East.‎Negro males were not permitted to attend the famous annual Quadroon Ball in old New Orleans, LA.. It was for white males only. To the ball came colored women of exceptional beauty…‎The first color prejudice in the U.S. was not against Negroes but against Indians. Marriage of white men and Indian women was forbidden on the ground that the children would be too dark-skinned. Indian slavery proved unprofitable, but the Negro one wasn’t since Negroes were more intelligent and willing, having been taught to obey in their native Africa. As a result they took the Indian’s place in color prejudice also.‎FN-73.‎Count Pushkin Russian field-marshal and brother of Pushkin, Russia’s foremost poet. The Pushkin family on both its white and Negro side was one of the foremost in Europe. Count Pushkin’s great grandfather, Abraham Hannibal, was a Negro slave presented to Peter the Great. He later rose to be tutor to the heir to the throne and Commander-in-Chief of the Russian army. The family of the Negro side has married into some of the leading royal families of Europe.‎Chopi Ngodo Drummer Of Portuguese, East Africa. The Chopi are said to be the most musical of all the African peoples.‎Are believed to have come from Asia 2000 yrs. Ago bringing their music which is entirely original. Supposed to be the most skilled of all Xylophone players. Boys of seven can cover the four octaves from treble to double-bass. ‎Primitive Negroes from Prehistoric times whether in Africa or the Islands of the Pacific, have always shown a high degree of artistic skill. The carvings on this Negrito or Little Negro,  was done by a “wile man” of Borneo, untouched by civilization. (From drawing made from original skull)‎FN-74.‎Hartania Woman Of the Hoggar, Southern Algeria, Sahara, Africa, wearing symbols of her Islamic faith. People from this region have had a powerful influence on civilization to the North from most ancient times including ancient Rome, Spain and Portugal under the Moors. Rock drawings of high artistry, said to be thousands of years older than even Egypt, have been found in the Hoggar, portraying Negro Types. (From original in the Musee De L’Homme, Paris)‎From 660 to 250 B.C., Ethiopia had 25 candaces, or ruling queens, one of whom was Kantakeh V. It was during her rule (58-80 A.D.) That Juda, “A Enuch of Great Authority who Had Charge of All Her Treasure,” was Converted to Christianity at Jerusalem by Philip of the Bible.‎Cudjo Lewis Of Mobile, Alabama, was the last known survivor of the last cargo of slaves brought from Africa. Interviewed in 1937, he told of the life of his people, his capture, the terrible sea-voyage and what he thought of America. Though slave-trade was abolished in 1808, many Africans continued to be smuggled in until 1861, chiefly by New York ship-owners. ‎FN-75.Edward W. Brooke ‎Attorney-General of Massachusetts. Said to be the first Negro to hold a state-wide office in that state. Won by a majority of 290,000 over a white opponent. Graduate of Howard University and Boston Law School. Officer in the 366 Infantry in Italy in World War II. In the Democratic landslide, he was re-elected (1964) by a republican majority of nearly 800,000. Popularly mentioned as candidate for next governor of the state.‎Negro Caucasian from the Caucasus, Southern Russia. Negroes have been living in that region for over 2300 years. The original Caucasians were black. The word is said to originate in “Cush”, son of Ham. Blumenbach, German scientist, has been much criticized for first calling whites by that name.‎Cheops, Builder of the Great Pyramid of Egypt, one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World. 451 ft. high, it covers 13 acres, has 2,500,000 blocks of granite each weighing 2.5 tons. Took over 100,000 men 30 years to build and is still one of the world’s greatest engineering feats. It is the only remaining one of the 7 wonders. Inside it has burial vaults.‎FN-76.Cazembe Hereditary name of the kings of a rich central African kingdom, which remained independent until the 19th century, when England and Belgium divided it between them. Very rich in copper, was chief source of that metal for Belgium. This Cazembe of the 18th century. ‎ After a sketch made from life at the time…‎Jacintha de Siqueira ‎Was one of Brazil’s greatest women. Brought from Africa as a slave, she discovered gold at Quatro Vintens and founded Villa Nova Do Principe in 1714. Her sons, born of leading white men founded some of Brazil’s most illustrious families. With white women very few, the first mothers of Brazil were Negro and Indian.‎In 1862, a Negro revealed the hiding place of 600,000 dollars in coin to the U.S. Government. On the Approach of the Union Army to New Orleans, the sum was hidden in the Dutch Consulate. The Negro who helped hide the money wrote down the details in his Bible. The Dutch claimed the money but after much dispute it was proved not theirs. No mention is made of the Negro’s name or the reward, if any, he received but the sum came in well for the U.S. at that time.‎FN-77.Sir Harold E. Allen KT., O.B.E.,  P.C.,‎ Distinguished for serving as finance minister of Jamaica, B.W.I., and leader of the house of ‎Representatives...Delegate to World Trade Conference, London and Geneva, 1947; and to same at Havana. Awarded Mico Gold Medal for public service. Knighted by George VI in 1948.‎Jose Manuel Valdes A Negro who was once barred from medical school of the University of Lima, Peru, South America because of a law excluding Negroes, Indians and Mixed-Bloods, rose to be one of the most eminent surgeons of the republic. He was finally admitted on order of Carlos IV, King of Spain, to whom he sent a petition. The order ended school segregation.‎Negro Dancers Of about 30,000 years ago. One of a number of astonishing rock paintings and frescoes done in color by pre-historic Negroes and discovered by a French expedition to the Central Sahara in 1938. Count De Chasseloup Laubat, who saw them, thinks these very ancient artists might have inspired ancient Egyptian art. He thinks the girls dancing to Tom-Toms. “The rhythm suggested,” he said, “is very Negroid.”‎FN-78.Wah-Ah-Ra One of the great Negro Lords of Egypt, who lived about 600 B.C. He was overseer of the royal scribes. Supervised one of the most ancient versions of the Book of the Dead, referring to the immortality and happiness of the after-life in Kingdom of Osiris. His sarcophagus in the British Museum was found near the Great Pyramid and weighs four tons.‎Lieutenant Pete Vogelsang 1815-1887...One of the first four Negroes to be officers in the U.S. Army. Enlisting as a private in the 54th Mass. In 1863, he served with distinction in the Civil War battles of Ft. Wagner, Honey Hill, Charleston, Olustee, and Savannah. Was later regimental quartermaster.‎Singing Ethiopian youth from Ancient Rome. Rome had swarms of Negroes. Most of them, like the imported whites, were slaves. But most of the physicians, tutors, secretaries, and even some who held authority in Caesar’s name were slaves. There is good reason to believe some of the latter were Negroes.‎FN-79.Africa had civilizations that may not only have outdated Egypt but were thousands of years older than any in Europe. Winwood Reader, explorer of the last century, told of seeing the remains of several in Central Africa. The latest discovery is Ishang, Belgian Congo, said to be 8000 years. Its people, as reported by Dr. De Heinzelin, its discoverer, knew Arithmetic and the art of writing.‎Cozales A Negro member of the French parliament, fought a duel in Paris, Aug. 12, 1790 with a white member, Barnave. In a heated debate over slavery in the colonies, Cozales declared that those who favored slavery were thieves. Barnave took it personally. Both men missed each other in the first round. Cozales was slightly wounded in the second round.‎Macomo A West African Negro, of the 1850’s, is one of the most famous lion-tamers in history. Arriving in London as a sailor he went to a circus and saw a lion mauling its tamer, Strand. Going boldly into the cage, he drove off the lion with such skill that he became famous on the spot. Once he fought off two tigers. It was predicted he’d be eaten alive but he died in bed of old age, 1870.‎FN-80.Zimbabwe Walls of the Great Fortress of Zimbabwe, South Africa. Believed to be as old as Ancient Egypt, it is considered as great an enigma as the Sphinx. The civilization of which it was a part disappeared entirely. The walls are 30 feet high and of hand-tooled granite. More than 100 other buried cities have been unearthed in this region.‎First recorded marriage of Negroes in the United States is that of Antony Van Angola and Lucie D’ Angola in the Dutch Church of New Amsterdam (Later New York City) May 5, 1641. The Angolas were the first known wealthy Negro family in the United States. All Negroes then weren’t slaves. Some were soldiers brought by the Dutch from the West Indies to fight the Indians. These free Negroes settled the famous Bowery of New York. There was no color prejudice then.‎The Carthaginians ‎A Negroid people of North Africa, were the world’s first great sea-going power. They came originally from Phoenicia, one of whose kings, Eshmunuzar II, is of marked Negro ancestry in 850 B.C. Thanks to a rich trade with the lands of the Mediterranean they became the world’s leading power. They conquered Spain and under their great leader Hannibal, dominated Rome for 13 years.‎FN-81.Bishari Warrior By Jean-Louis Gerome (1824-1904) renowned French painter. The Bishari (so-called Hamitic) live in the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan and are dark brown, frizzly-haired with some white strain but visibly Negroid. Said by some ethnologists to be the nearest approach to the ancient Egyptian type. Armed only with swords and spears they helped the Mahdi drive England out of the Sudan in 1885.‎The first popular American songs were of Negro origin. The slaves sang them to enliven their hours and white writers developed them. Two of the best known were “Jim Crow” and “Ole Dan Tucker”. It was a white man, inspired by Negro melodies, who wrote “Dixie”, later used by the confederate states.‎FN-82.In ancient Europe, elephants were used like tanks in World War I. They were brought from Africa and their trainers were Negroes who were greatly honored. Hannibal used them in his great victories over Rome. A coin of his shows him, a Negro on one side and an elephant on the other. This elephant with its Negro rider is from the triumphal procession of Scipio in the Quirinal, Rome.‎Abraham Lincoln, who led the successful fight for the emancipation of the 4,000,000 Black slaves in the USA in 1865: and Alexander II, Czar of Russia, who freed the 22,000,000 white slaves of Russian in 1861, both met the same fate----Assassination.The postage stamp that caused a war….. ‎In 1894 when Emperor Menelik started a postal service he had a stamp with his picture on it. King Humbert of Italy who felt his picture ought to have been on it instead demanded its withdrawal. In the war that followed the entire Italian Army was captured or killed at Adowa and all its guns and supplies taken, March 1, 1896.‎FN-83.Panther from Benin One of the world’s most famous bronzes. Several centuries old. Benin once a powerful West African kingdom, has a civilization that goes back to the 12th century. Experts call its art equal to the best of the Renaissance. There about 2000 known pieces of Benin art.‎Hon. Franklin A. Baron “Man of the Year” (1958) Dominica, BWI. Minister of Trade and Production. Son of a wealthy merchant, has always taken active interest in the island’s progress. Represented it in official trade talks in London; promoted shipping; campaigned against malaria; and promoted youth activities. President of the Union Club and Vice-President of the Amateur Sports Association. ‎Africans were the chief builders of the New World. Between 1502 and 1886, more than 15,000,000 were distributed among all lands. More than 4,000,000 came to U.S.A., about 500,000 were smuggled in the New York as Chief Slave-Port after abolition of slave-trade in 1808. Last known living African of that time is Charlie Smith of Polk City, FLA.‎FN-84.Bagabo Moro Or Moore, native Filipino Negro. His people are said to be the most direct descendants of the Pigmy Blacks that once dominated the Philippine, and probably Southern India, Siam, and New Guinea, where they are still to be found as well as in the Andaman Islands. The Moros, now Moslems, fought the Spanish invaders. Great sea-rovers, they also attacked the neighboring islands. The Negro strain  in the Filipino comes from these moors and from the African slaves taken there by the Spaniards.‎Ruins of the Great tomb of Mahdi, who drove England out of the Sudan. Starting as a house-boy, he freed his people and became master of an empire 1600 miles long and 700 miles wide. In 1896, 11 years after Mahdi’s death, Lord Kitchener reconquered the country, shot up the tomb and dumped his bones into the Nile so that his people could no longer use it as a shrine.‎FN-85.Dr. Sadie P. Delaney ‎Chief Librarian and organizer of the Tuskegee Veteran’s Hospital. Internationally acclaimed for training librarians for the mentally ill and the blind. In 1948, received American Legion Award for meritorious service. Listed in 54 publications, among them Who’s Who in America; Principal Women of America; Who’s Who in Library Service. Was named “Woman of the Year” three times. Look Magazine called her “Master of the greatest of all arts—aiding humanity.”‎Negro median annual income in the United States is much below that of white, according to the U.S. Dept. of Labor. In the city areas it was $3,445 white against $1,869 colored. In some places the latter was 58 percent less. The rural Negro fares a little better. His income was 40 percent less than white.‎On Jan. 1, 1776, when the then American flag was unfurled on Boston Common “free Negroes stood in the ranks side by side with white men”. Inspired by the example of Crispus Attacks they fought bravely but the slave masters objected, and they were discharged. Washington, however, appealed to Congress, which decided “that the free Negroes who had served faithfully in the army at Cambridge might be enlisted but no others”. Later, however, they were glad to use even slaves.‎FN-86.Osiris Negroid Christ of the Ancient Egyptians.‎ Ethiopians of the earliest centuries B.C. declared they were the first of all human beings. That they founded Egypt and gave it their laws, customs, statues and writing. Diodorus Siculus, ancient Greek historian, says they were probably right since Ethiopia was “nearest the sun” and thus the place “that should have been the first parents of all living creatures.” Egypt had many Ethiopian rulers. Zeus, Greatest of the Greek Gods, bore the title, “Ethiop.” ‎‎“The Black Elijah” ‎Born in 1860 William Harris of Sierra Leone, a Ship Laborer, who led his downtrodden people in a revolt against the British and was imprisoned for a while, which only increased his popularity. Presents poured in which he gave to the poor. “I’m only the carpet on which Christ wiped his feet,” he said. He vanished in 1921. ‎Jews while in slavery in Egypt for 430 years, probably adopted their law against pork… most modern Ethiopians and Mohammedans do not eat pork.‎FN-87.William A. Harper, 1875-1910 Exceptionally brilliant artist. Very poor, working his way through school by doing odd jobs, he created a sensation with the first display of his paintings at the annual exhibition of the Chicago Art Institute. Entering it an unknown, he became famous overnight. Of his nine pictures exhibited, six sold at high price. One critic wrote of his picture, “An Afternoon, Montigny”, “It has no superior in the exhibit and will ever be a source of delight”. His death caused great grief in art circles.‎To some Negroes, John Brown, great abolition leader was a Negro. When they heard the song, “John Brown’s Body”, they thought it was about John Brown of St. Simon’s Island, GA., who was the first Negro to die in the Civil War fighting the confederates.‎The 62nd. Regiment, United States colored infantry, fired the last shot in the Civil War at Brownsville, Texas, May 13, 1865.‎FN-88.Ethiopian ArtistsAre among the finest in the world in ornamental book-binding they are unexcelled. This Ethiopian Bible being held by a Coptic priest was done by Native artists. It is made of hand-tooled leather and as beautiful in COlor as it is in craftsmanship.‎Negro Pioneers Have left their names in several localities of the West as in Washington, Utah, and Montana. A canyon is named for William Granstaff, early settler of Utah in 1877. And a creek in Washington for an un-named Negro who stuck it rich there. Negro mountain, in Maryland, is named for a giant Negro who fell fighting the Indians under Col. Cresap about 1755.‎FN-89.Wyatt Tee Walker ‎Very active foe of racial injustice. Able speaker and close associate of Dr. Martin Luther King. Vice-President of Negro Heritage Library, devoted to the publishing of blacked-out facts of Negro History. Graduate of Virginia Union U. with highest honors. Former pastor of historic Gillfield Baptist Church, Petersburg, VA.‎World’s Finest Corn Grown by N.C. Bruce ‎Principal of the Bartle II Agricultural School, won first prize for the world’s finest corn at the Panama-Pacific International Exposition, San Francisco, 1915. Principal Bruce, a Negro, got as high as 114 bushels of corn to the acre through his knowledge of fertilizing. Represented Missouri at the crown-grower’s show.‎Joseph Rainey Ex-slave, was the first Negro elected to Congress. Elected in 1870 by a large majority, he was one of its outstanding figures for nine years. He fought vigorously for the 14th Amendment and the Civil Rights Acts and worked for the attack on the Klan. An able speaker, he won many friends.‎FN-90.Bronze head of a woman believed from the head ornament to be a queen. One of the hundreds of heads unearthed in the buried city of Ife, Nigeria, West Africa, and done by Negro artists about 800 A.D. more and more, African art some of the finest of which goes back to 25,000 B.C. or earlier, is emerging as the mother of European art.‎Negroes, free and slaves, aided in the fight for independence of the former republic of Texas...some settlers, well-to-do, gave money: others military service and sometimes their lives. A Negro was in the first volunteer company and another, Samuel McCullough, is said to have been the first Texan to shed his blood and was decorated for valor.‎T. Thomas Fortune ‎Leader of the National Afro-American league, which petitioned Congress, in 1890 to provide 10 billion dollars to settle in the North those Southern whites who did not want to live among Negroes. The number of Negroes, it said, “in S. Carolina, Louisiana, Mississippi...makes the situation painful for a small minority of white citizens.” Three Southern senators were named to be “the Moses to lead the unhappy people out of the states of their misfortune.”‎FN-91.From Slave to Treasurer of USA Blanche K. Bruce Born of Slave parents in Virginia, 1841. After emancipation studied at Oberlin College. Entered Mississippi politics 1868, and was for a time Chairman of the State Senate. Delegate to Republican National Convention, 1870. Elected to U.S. Senate, 1870, where he won high praise. In 1881 appointed Register of the Treasury with his name on all U.S. bonds and paper money.‎Dr. Solomon Fuller One of America’s great psychiatrists. Studied in Germany and England. Emeritus Professor of Pathology, Boston Univ., where he taught for 22 years. Neurologist, Mass. Memorial Psychopathic Hospital. Later State Hospital, Allentown, PA… Fellow, American Psychiatric Assoc.‎In several Southern states, Maryland among them, rich Negroes used to buy Germans and Irish and put them up for sale as late as 1818. The Irish were unwelcome in almost every state. In 1704, Maryland imposed a tax of 20 shillings on each Irish brought in “To Prevent the importing of too many Irish.” Pennsylvania wouldn’t admit the Irish at all.‎FN-92.Jose Gonsalez Planas 1850---1901‎ General of Division, one of the ablest and most intrepid commanders of the First Cuban Revolution, which is known as the Ten Years’ War. He defeated the Spaniards in many battles. In both the First and Second Cuban Revolts the majority of the rank and file were Negroes.‎The Duchess of Alba. One of the Grand Ladies of Spain, with her little Negro favorite, Maria de la Luz. These Negroes were adopted not only by the high nobility but also by royalty. They were given the royal surname. One favorite of Charles III --- Don Carlos de Bourbon, became a noted architect.‎James B. Parker Six foot G.A. Negro, was the first to seize the assassin of president Wm. McKinley, Czolgosz, at Buffalo September 6th, 1901. He was next in line to shake the president’s hand when Czolgosz fired. At the second shot, Parker took the assassin by the throat, threw him to the ground, and disarmed him.‎FN-93.Was Alexander Hamilton Colored?‎ Much has been said Pro and Con. He was born in the West Indies of a native mother and Hamilton, a Scotchman. The usual portrait of him shows no Negro strain, but this rare one by Peale shows Negroid hair. It is also said that he was Jewish. His mother, Rachel, married a Jew, Levine, but left him for Hamilton. She herself, was not Jewish. Alexander was illegitimate. At least two other noted Americans of his time were known as colored.‎ (sketched from a reproduction of a painting by Pearle)‎Ralph W. Tyler A Negro, and an expert accountant, served as auditor of the U.S. Navy from 1905 to 1913.‎The Harpe Brothers Two of Kentucky’s most vicious outlaws, known as “Big” Harpe and “Little” Harpe, were of Negro descent. Mounted on fast horses they terrorized and plundered whole counties of Kentucky and Tennessee. Both were slain. “Big” Harpe in 1799 and his head stuck on a pole. Harpe’s head, KY named after him.‎FN-94.The Kroomdai Skull With section of its teeth. Found in Africa. About 300,000 years old, it is hailed as the "missing link" and strengthens Africa's claim as the original home of the human race. Lord Monboddo (1714-99) supported the idea. Later Darwin and others agreed.Simon the Cyrenian "Simon the Cyrenian helping Christ with the cross." As told in Saint Matthew 27:32, by the celebrated 19th century german painter Lovis Corinth. According to tradition, Simon was a negro. Cyrene, founded 624 B.C. is in North Africa.FN-95.Jewel-box of XVI century Italy with beautiful black girl on lid. Made of ambergris, a wax-like secretion from the sperm-whale used in making perfume and highly prized during the Renaissance; enamel, and decorated with jewels and golden ornaments. The model was probably a favorite in some royal or noble home. Such black girls even became ancestresses of noble white families as that of Alessandro Dei Medici, Duke of Florence and head of Europe's then leading royal house.Rafael Serra 1858.....1909 Poet, economist, legislator and editor, was one of the foremost in Cuba's struggle for freedom. With six others edited "Patricia", a newspaper that won many Americans to Cuba's side. Served in Cuban House of Representatives. Author of several books on politics and economics and one on the race question, "Para Blancos y Negros."Detail from rock fresco discovered in Southern Sahara, Africa in 1938. A massed group, it is 5ft. high, 13ft. long and believed to be the largest prehistoric drawing of its kind. Done in color it is described as a "veritable masterpiece." For the drawing of animals those Africans of anywhere from 25,000 to 50,000 years ago have never been excelled.FN-96.Another White-Wash??‎ Wharlest Jackson Murder Mississippii white-wash Medgar Evers William Moore James Chaney Andrew Goodman Michael Schwerner Rev. James ReebFN-97.Rev. Patrick F. Healy, S.J. Born 1835 of a white father and a negro mother, was president of Georgetown Univ. (White) Washington, D.C. 1873-1882. Art and science building bears his name. The 5 children of this mixed couple were distinguished. One became catholic bishop of Maine and another captain of the U.S. Cutter Alaska.Two life-size heads from the Temple of Sesebi, Egypt believed to be of the time of Akhenaton, or about 1350 B.C. Negroes from earliest times furnished fighting men of Egypt and carried victory into Greece, Palestine, Syria and other parts of the Near East. They were known as Matoi. Their probable living descendants are the Masai.FN-98.Mrs. S.J. Garnet First colored female school principal in New York to teach both white and colored pupils after segregated schools had been abolished. She was the wife of Henry Highland Garnet (1815-1881), great abolition leader. Mrs. Garnet was highly respected by both "races" in New York.The famous Morris dance of england is of negro origin. Taken to naples and Rome by Africans, it became extremely popular there. In 1521, an exhibition was given for the Pope. White dancers who performed it at first wore black masks or blackened their faces. For negroes the dance, with its spirited movements, was a fertility one. The Italians called it "Moresca" (Moorish).Austin Steward Born in 1791 in Prince William Co., VA., was one of the first successful negro authors in America. His book, "Twenty-Two Years a Slave," giving a realistic account of the life of the slaves and the masters, created a stir. Later became president of the...FN-99.Profile of the NegroPast and Present"Kellie" Wilson As the popularity of negro models increases, the spectacular rise of this talented young high-fashion model is brought into focus. Has appeared in Vogue, Look, Ebony, The N.Y Times and many other important publications. Currrently living in Paris, France, she was featured in the elite Nova magazine. 11 full pages, full color. Miss Wilson attended the Univ. of Chicago and the Chicago Institute of Art. She was won several awards for her striking dress designs.An englishman visiting the small island of Tristan Da Cunha wrote that he found the most beautiful woman in the world there. White englishman had married five negro native women who are there in 1827.